Hey, guys, what's up?
This is a marathon, and I welcome you to an editorial on this course on Ruby.
And in this studio, we are again going to be covering two functions that are the cover and exclude
and function.
So starting on with the first function, that is the cover function, which is an invalid method in
Ruby that returns a boolean value.
True at the given object lies within the given range as it is going to return false.
Now the object can be an element or it can be arranged.
So if you talk about the syntax for this, it is going to be range, not color.
And as you can see that you have got a parameter and it is basically the function except an object which
is to be checked for.
And as I told you about the return value that it is going to return boolean value.
True, if the given object lies within the given range as it is going to return false, then talking
about the second function we are going to be covering in this tutorial is to exclude and function and
exclude and is an invalid method in Ruby that returns boolean value.
True, if the range exclude its end value as it is going to return false.
And it has a very simple syntax.
You have to write and arrange one, not exclude and a score, and you have to write in a question mark.
And as you can see that you have got no kind of parameters and the return value is again going to be
a boolean value.
True, if the range excludes and value, El-Sayed is going to return false.
So let's just cover two simple examples for how these two functions can be used with ranges.
So we will move on to Adam.
And the first function is basically the cover function.
So for that we need a range.
Let's say we have a range from zero to 10 this time.
And what we are going to write in, we are going to write and post one.
Range, dot cover, you're going to ride in a question mark and we are going to ride the element we
want to inspect for, so you just ride and Dual Hill.
Is good, it is going to return true, as I told you, that it returns a boolean value of the given
object lies within the given range as it is going to return false.
So this function also works the very same way, like include.
And if you just write and let's say like, well, that is not a part of it and is going to simply return
false.
Then talking about the second function we are going to be covering is that exclude, underscore and
and of questionmark function.
So if you just write and arrange with it, you don't exclude and run.
It is going to return us now from the previous editorials, you know, the difference between a dot
dot and a dot operator.
And now you know that in the dot operator, the and element that is Denoyer is going to be included
as well.
But if you use that triple dot, you know that the last element is going to get excluded.
So for this very same range we have right over here, if you just write in zero, dot, dot, dot,
dot, then run this code.
You can see that now you have got trouble here because now the last element has been excluded from this
range you have.
Right or here.
So that's how basically you can have the exclude and function used and you can see that if you have
this last element missing from that or not.
So as it is obvious from its name as well that it is going to return.
True, if the end is excluded and that and it's only excluded if you use three dots right away.
But if you use to dots, you know that the end is going to be included and it is going to then return
false.
So I guess that's it with these two functions as well.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.